[TOC]


## cardinality of Euclidean space

$|R|=|R^n|$

**TODO**: prove 

> e.g. $\mathbb{R}^2\leftrightarrow (0,1)$  
> $(a,b)=\left((a_{0}a_{1}\ldots\right)_{10},\ \left(b_{0}b_{1}\ldots)\right)_{10}\to \left(a_{0}b_{0}a_{1}b_{1}a_{2}b_{2}\ldots\right)_{10}$  
>  
> $x=\left(x_{0}x_{1}x\ldots\right)_{10}\to ((x_{0}x_{2}x_{4}\ldots),(x_{1}x_{3}x_{5}\ldots))$



### links

- wikipedia: cardinal numbers
- wikipedia: cardinality of the continuum
- wikipedia: space filling curve


## Cantor's theorem

> Show that $|A|<|\rho(A)|$ where $\rho(A)$ is the powerset of $A$ i.e. $\rho(A)=\{B\mid B\subseteq A\}$.  

1. $|A|\leq |\rho(A)|$

Let $f:A\to \rho(A)$ where $f(x)=\{x\}$.  
$x\neq y\implies \{x\}\neq \{y\}$.  
A injective function from $A$ to $\rho(A)$ exists so $|A|\leq |\rho(A)|$

2. $|A|\neq |\rho(A)|$

Suppose that $|A|=|\rho(A)|$,
by definition, exists a function $f:A\to \rho(A)$ s.t. $f$ is bijective.  
Let $S=\{x\mid x\not\in f(x)\}$ and $s=f^{-1}(S)$.

- if $s\in S$, then $s\not \in f(s)=f(f^{-1}(S))=S$
- if $s\not \in S$, then $s \in f(s)=f(f^{-1}(S))=S$

contradict. Such a bijective mapping does not exist, $|A|\neq |\rho(A)|$


### links

- wikipedia: Cantor's theorem
- Russell's paradox
- quine
- the halting problem


## halting problem

> determine whether there exists a function $H$.  
> $H:\{\text{Program}\}\times \{\text{Input}\}\to \{\mathbf T,\mathbf F\}$  
> $\forall p,i\quad H(p,i)=[p(i)\text{ can be computed in finte steps}]$

Suppose that such $H$ exists.  
Let $G(x)$ be another program where `G(x) = if H(x,x) then loop else return`.  

Now consider $G(G)$  

- if $H(G,G)=\mathbf T$ (which indicates that $G(G)$ finishes in finite steps), then $G(G)$ runs forever.
- if $H(G,G)=\mathbf F$ (which indicates that $G(G)$ runs forever), then $G(G)$ finishes in finite steps.

### extra

However, some thing went wrong.

```haskell
H:: (i->o,i) -> Bool
```
then in `H x x`, we are expected to have`x::i->o,x::i`, which is wired.

Why this happens.

> 也许是计算模型不同,turing machine也许不需要"类型"这种东西,  
> 引入类型,得到的计算模型可以和turing machine等价.
> 而我认为`i->o`与`i`不同,其实是我不认可无穷递归?所以如果我认为infinte的类型不可存在,那么我的模型其实弱于turing machine?

## R and powerset N have same cardinality

> given any set non empty $A$ and a set $E$ from its powerset $S=\rho(A)$ ($E\in S$) we can define the so-called indicator function
> $$\forall E\in S\quad f_{E}:A\to \{0,1\}\ \text{where}\ f_E(x)=[x\in E]$$


1. consider this function $f$ which is injective.
$$
f:\rho(\mathbb N)\to \left[0,1\right]
\quad
f(S)=\sum_{i=0}^\infty \frac{[i\in S]}{2^{i+1}}
$$

2. consider this function $g$ which is injective.

Given $x\in [0,1]$, let $s={(x)}_2=(s_0,s_1,s_2\ldots)$ be its binary representation.  
let $g(x)=\{i\in \mathbb N\mid s_i=1\}$  
note: $1=0.99\ldots=0.\overline{9}$


3. therefore $|\rho(\mathbb N)|=|\mathbb R|$

### extra

what about this function $h:\rho(\mathbb N)\to \mathbb N$

$$h(S)=1+\sum_{i=0}^{\max(S)}[i\in S]2^{i+2}$$

for example $\{1,3,4,5\}\to {(1\,10111)}_2$,  
can we say that this gives a injective function from $\rho(\mathbb N)$ to $\mathbb N$,  
resulting in $|\rho(\mathbb N)|\leq \mathbb N$

DEFINITELY NOT!   
$h$ is even not a member of $\{\rho(\mathbb N)\to \mathbb N\}$,  
if it is, then what is the image of $\mathbb N$?  
Here's the difference in $h$ and $f$, $f(\mathbb N)=\sum_{i=0}^\infty \frac{1}{2^{i+1}}=1$, but for $h$, since there $\max(\mathbb N)$ is not well defined, $h(\mathbb N)$ is not defined.


## quotient of integers are countable.

$$
\begin{matrix}
&\frac{1}{1}&\frac{2}{1}&\frac{3}{1}&\dots\\
&\frac{1}{2}&\frac{2}{2}&\frac{3}{2}&\dots\\
&\frac{1}{3}&\frac{2}{3}&\frac{3}{3}&\dots\\
&\frac{1}{4}&\frac{2}{4}&\frac{3}{4}&\dots\\
\end{matrix}
$$

```cpp
s={}
index=0
mapping={}
for i in [2..]{
	for j in [1..i-1]{
		auto f=Fraction(j,i-j)
		if f not in s{
			s.insert(f)
			mapping[f]=index++
		}
	}
}
```

## $\{0,1\}^\mathbb{N}$ is uncountable

$S=\{a_n=\{a_0,a_1,a_2\ldots a_k\ldots \}\mid k\in \mathbb N\land (\forall i\ a_i\!\in\!\{0,1\})\}$


Suppose it is countable, then there is a bijection between $\{0,1\}^{\mathbb N}$ and $\mathbb N$

```
f(0)={ a[0,0] a[0,1] a[0,2] ... }
f(1)={ a[1,0] a[1,1] a[1,2] ... }
f(2)={ a[2,0] a[2,1] a[2,2] ... }
f(3)={ a[3,0] a[3,1] a[3,2] ... }
...
.
.
```

Then what is the preimage of `x={ flip(a[0,0]) flip(a[1,1]) flip(a[2,2]) filp(a[3,3]) ... }`?  
It turns out that `x` has no preimage, if not, let `k=inverse_f(x)`, however `x[k]=flip(a[k,k]), f(k)[k]=a[k,k]`.  
Thus such bijective does not exists, $|\{0,1\}^{\mathbb N}| > |\mathbb N|$



